---
layout: post
title:  Using Version Control Git and GitHub to Track Changes
date:   2015-05-03 12:00:00
technical: true
categories: Git Github
tags: Git Github
---

Thanks for finding this first blog about version control, Git, and Github! This is a recap of what I learned on my first week of Phase 0 at DBC. It has been a great learning experience during my first week. It was quite intense since I am doing this while working full time. Anyway, I would like to share what I learn and hope someone will find it useful.

###What is version control?

It is a software (such as Git and Github, more on that later) that allows you to track changes in your files. It is similar to MS Word Track Changes but this is much more powerful. It allows you to go revert the changes to a previous working state if you accidently introduce bugs in the new changes. Instead of making copies of multiple files for each change, version control software uses only one file and track changes based on the branch (more on that later) you are working on. For example, suppose your team is writing a technical manual using Word document (or codes, Git and GitHub track changes for other files as well) and each person is in charge of a specific category of the manual. Traditionally, each person would write a section of the manual on a Word document and then once all the sections are done, someone will pull all the changes and copy them all into a another Word document. This requires too much files management. A version control software solves this problem by allowing all the users to modify the same file and once the person is done, they can merge the changes without affecting the work of another person.

### Git and GitHub: What is the difference?

Both are version control software but Git exists in your local drive and Github is a cloud platform of version control. Git is strictly command-line based software, while GitHub offers web-based graphical interface. Both can work together. For example, you use Git to clone your remote repository on Github into your local drive. You can also merge your updated local repository to Github.

### How does Git help you keep track of changes?

Whenever you want to make changes, you create a new branch using Git. This will deviate you from the main branch (which is normally Master branch). Making changes in the new branch does not interfere with the Master branch. You can test your codes in the new branch and see if it works. If it does not, work you can always revert back the changes or use the main branch. Once you find that your codes are working, you may upload into your remote repository.

### Why use GitHub if we have Git already?

This is a good question. Git only operates on your computer and you can run it through your Mac or Linux terminal (for Windows you need more setup, which I will not go through here). However, if you are working in a team, there is no way for everyone to access your computer unless it is set up as a network (which is not). Under a normal development team, your team will be working on a project that contains thousands of files and each team members may work on the same file. GitHub acts as a storage terminal for your team members to access those files. Furthermore, it is also a version control software to manage your project. Anybody in your team can have access to your project files on GitHub. There will not be a need to exchange flash drives anymore!

Thanks for reading my blog. There will be more soon!







