---
layout: post
title:  My Values
date:   2015-06-15 12:00:00
technical: false
categories: Values
tags: Values
---

In the last cultural blog, I discussed sterotype threat. This week I learned more about stereotype threat and how one can use affirmation to counter it. What is affirmation? a self-affirmation is basically a way to protect oneself from stereotype threat by promoting the practice of self-worth. This can be done by exploring values such as compassion, honesty, integrity, etc.

The question being asked this week is "When you think of the times in your life where you’ve been the happiest, the proudest, or the most satisfied, which of the following values come to mind?" I would say that the following values:

  1. Honesty
  2. Confidence
  3. Freedom
  4. Independence
  5. Ambition
  6. Persistence
  7. Helping Society
  8. Helping Others
  9. Volunteering
  10. Health
  11. Will-Power
  12. Growth
  13. Respect
It's quite a list but each day, I try my best to live up to these values. I think value #1 is the most important to me since it can be used as a measure of whether a person can be trusted or not. If you are not an honest person, how can your friends, family, colleagues, or even business partners trust you? Without honesty, you cannot deliver confidence to a person who depends on you.

When I think about my values listed above, it is quite interesting, since this is the first time I think about them that much. As for whether they can be used to counter stereotype threat, I think the "will-power" value is the critical one. Having a strong will-power will negate any negative thoughts or stereotype threat. For example, if my codes don't work and I start to feel whether I should continue doing this or not, my will power will fight off this feeling and tell myself that I can do it.

Thanks for reading!